FORGET EVERYTHING ELSE AND JUST FOCUS ON WHATEVER YOU ARE GOING TO READ BELOW

1:read shloka- “Karmanye vadhikaraste Ma Phaleshu Kadachana,Ma Karma Phala Hetur Bhur Ma Te Sango Stv Akarmani”
meaning- You have every right to work but not expecting the fruits out of it.Let the focus be not on the fruits and never be inactive.

you should not have the fear of not performing well, the only thing that can aid you in performing well is- learning and practicing now WITH UTMOST DEDICATION, REMEMBER THE MORE YOU SWEAT IN PRACTICE, THE LESS YOU BLEED IN BATTLE.

as you are practicing now with all effort and focus if you put the focus in a progressive overloading manner to complete the course, that is the whole thing that matters and you may not have the need to be frightened,

you got a good and precious chance, don't be pressurized by it IMAGINE HOW MANY PEOPLE GET CHANCE LIKE THIS? NOT EVEN 1 IN TEN THOUSAND!!!, in fact, if you understand truly, this is the chance to be happy and to be a great person and help the world. this is an advantage that you need to accept with both hands.

The company is believing in me, I have to do justice to every penny it is paying me,

If you are feeling pressurized, ask yourself what is the reason behind it, if there is no reason, then let your deep self understand that you don't have any need to pressurized.
Remember you have a loving family, food to eat, clothes to wear,place to live, you should be privileged and very eager and excited to work, not pressurized.

moreover senganal had provided a lot of time for me to learn, he and this company had given me a lot, I already started repaying the company and will continue to do so


key words for the current assignments:
flask app
	S3 location
	EC2
	t2.micro (or)
	t3.micro  this is an instance of ec2 (https://tigeranalytics.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-saa-c02/learn/lecture/26098112#questions/17478452 at 3:30)
8085.
VPC 
RDS Aurora  MySQL
	load balancer
	Autoscaling group
	Lambda function
private subnet


time calculation:
15 pomodoros = 2 hours of udemy (first observation, not totally perfect, just for reference)
7 pomodoros = 44 minuts of udemy 15/5/22

24 hours-
8hrs sleep
1 hr exercise
2 hr bath,eat
2 hr misc work
1 hr phone
10 hr work time

total average time to be spent 150 hours

day1 -3hrs
day2 -15 pomodoros - 7 hours (not 10 hours, you need to improve a lot to achieve what you have promised yourself)
day3 -1hr + 12 pomodoros - 14 pomodoros - 7hrs (not 10 hours, you need to improve a lot to achieve what you have promised yourself)
day4  - 10 pomodoros - 5 hours - (not estimated 10 hours, exactly half the time less than you were supposed to, this is not what you have promised to yourself)
day5 - 9min + 14 pomodoros - 7 hours (need to fasten up, you should know that you aretaking it on a relaxed phase, it should not be the case, remember what you had promised your self)
day6 - 12 pomodors- (konchamaina siggundha ra niku... 10000 lo okadiki vache opportunity nikosthe ila use chesthara evaraina?)
day7
day8
day9
day10
day12
day13